Include text on if-then-else and begin-end (#1957)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/tutorials/language/0it_06_imperative.md

Here, the semicolon after 42 is ignored.

**`begin … end` expressions**

In OCaml, `begin … end` and parentheses are the same.

Imagine we want to write a function that:
1. Has an `int` reference parameter containing value _n_
2. Updates the reference's contents to _2 &times; (n + 1)_

This is arguably convoluted and does not work:
```ocaml
# let f r = r := incr r; 2 * !r;;
Error: This expression has type unit but an expression was expected of type int
```

But here is how it can be made to work:
```ocaml
# let f r = r := begin incr r; 2 * !r end;;
val f : int ref -> unit = <fun>
```

> The error came from assign `:=` associating stronger that semicolon `;`. Here is what we want to do, in order:

Author: ```suggestion
The error came from assign `:=`, which associates stronger than a semicolon `;`. Here is what we want to do, in order:
```

1. Increment `r`
2. Compute `2 * !r`
3. Assign into `r`

Remember the value of a semicolon-separated sequence is the value of its last expression. Grouping the first two steps with `begin … end` fixes the error.

> **Fun fact**: `begin … end` and parentheses are literally the same:

Reviewer: This was said on li 336. If you meant to repeat it here, then that's fine, although you might want to rephrase it to something like " **Remember: .... **

Author: This is repeated here because the `unit` value, usually written `()` can also be written `begin end`. Useless by funny

Here, the semicolon after 42 is ignored.

**`begin … end` expressions**

Imagine we want to write a function that:
1. Has an `int` reference parameter containing value _n_
2. Updates the reference's contents to _2 &times; (n + 1)_

This is arguably convoluted and does not work:
```ocaml
let f r = r := incr r; 2 * !r;;
Error: This expression has type unit but an expression was expected of type int
```

But here is how it can be made to work:
```ocaml

> # let f r = r := begin incr r; 2 * !r end;;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# let f r = r := begin incr r; 2 * !r end;;
val f : int ref -> unit = <fun>
```

Here, the semicolon after 42 is ignored.

**`begin … end` expressions**

Imagine we want to write a function that:
1. Has an `int` reference parameter containing value _n_
2. Updates the reference's contents to _2 &times; (n + 1)_

This is arguably convoluted and does not work:
```ocaml
let f r = r := incr r; 2 * !r;;
Error: This expression has type unit but an expression was expected of type int
```

But here is how it can be made to work:
```ocaml
# let f r = r := begin incr r; 2 * !r end;;
val f : int ref -> unit = <fun>
```

The error came from assign `:=` associating more that semicolum `;`. Here is what we want to do, in order:
1. Increment `r`
2. Compute `2 * !r`
3. Assign into `r`

> Remember the value of a semicolon-separated sequence is the value of its last expression. Grouping the first two steps suffice to fix the error. Usually, this is done using parenthesis. But surrounding by parenthesis or `begin … end` is the same. The latter is preferred to highlight expressions having side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember the value of a semicolon-separated sequence is the value of its last expression. Grouping the first two steps fix the error. Usually, this is done using parentheses, but surrounding it with `begin … end` works, too. The latter is preferred to highlight expressions that have side effects.
```

- : int = 42
```

It is possible to turn a conditional expression into a statement-like expression by using `unit` expressions in the branches.
```ocaml
# if 0 = 1 then print_endline "foo" else print_endline "bar";;
bar
- : unit = ()
```

Because `if … then … else …` is an expression, the above can also be expressed this way;
```ocaml
# print_endline (if 0 = 1 then "foo" else "bar");;
bar
- : unit = ()
```

The `unit` value `()` can serve as a [no-op](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noop) when only one branch has something to execute.
```ocaml
# if 0 = 1 then print_endline "foo" else ();;
- : unit = ()
```

But OCaml also allows the writing `if … then … ` expressions, without `else` branch, which is the same as the above.
```ocaml
# if 0 = 1 then print_endline "foo";;
- : unit = ()
```

In parsing, conditional expressions groups more than sequencing:
```ocaml
# if true then print_endline "A" else print_endline "B"; print_endline "C";;
A
C
- : unit = ()

# if false then print_endline "A" else print_endline "B"; print_endline "C";;
B
C
- : unit = ()
```

Here `; print_endline "C"` is executed after the whole conditional expression, not after `print_endline "B"`.

> The sequence must form a single subexpression to have two prints in one branch. Parenthesis can be used, but it is customary to use `begin … end` in an imperative context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sequence must form a single subexpression to have two prints in one branch. Parentheses can be used, but it is customary to use `begin … end` in an imperative context.
```

 ```ocaml
# if true then
    print_endline "A"
  else begin
    print_endline "B";
    print_endline "C"
  end;;
A
- : unit = ()

# if false then
    print_endline "A"
  else begin
    print_endline "B";
    print_endline "C"
  end;;
B
C
- : unit = ()
```

Grouping the statements of sequence is also needed for the first branch of the conditional:
```ocaml
# if true then begin
    print_endline "A";
    print_endline "C"
  end else
    print_endline "B";
  ;;

> A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A
C
```

- : unit = ()

# if false then
    print_endline "A";
    print_endline "C"
  else
    print_endline "B";;
B
C
- : unit = ()
```

> Failing to do it will result in a syntax error. What's before the semicolon is parsed as an `if … then … ` without else expression. What's after the semicolon appears as a [dangling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dangling_else) `else`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failing to do it will result in a syntax error. What's before the semicolon is parsed as an `if … then … ` without an `else` expression. What's after the semicolon appears as a [dangling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dangling_else) `else`.
```

Here, the semicolon after 42 is ignored.

**`begin … end` expressions**

Imagine we want to write a function that:
1. Has an `int` reference parameter containing value _n_
2. Updates the reference's contents to _2 &times; (n + 1)_

This is arguably convoluted and does not work:
```ocaml
let f r = r := incr r; 2 * !r;;
Error: This expression has type unit but an expression was expected of type int
```

But here is how it can be made to work:
```ocaml
# let f r = r := begin incr r; 2 * !r end;;
val f : int ref -> unit = <fun>
```

The error came from assign `:=` associating more that semicolum `;`. Here is what we want to do, in order:
1. Increment `r`
2. Compute `2 * !r`
3. Assign into `r`

Remember the value of a semicolon-separated sequence is the value of its last expression. Grouping the first two steps fix the error. Usually, this is done using parentheses, but surrounding it with `begin … end` works, too. The latter is preferred to highlight expressions that have side effects.

**Fun fact**: `begin … end` and parenthesis are badly the same:
```ocaml
# begin end;;
- : unit = ()
```

> ### Conditional Execution

Reviewer 2: This title is indirect, doesn't make clear that this is about If-Then-Else. From the title alone, it could also be about match expressions.

```ocaml
# if 0 = 1 then print_endline "foo";;
- : unit = ()
```

In parsing, conditional expressions groups more than sequencing:
```ocaml
# if true then print_endline "A" else print_endline "B"; print_endline "C";;
A
C
- : unit = ()

# if false then print_endline "A" else print_endline "B"; print_endline "C";;
B
C
- : unit = ()
```

Here `; print_endline "C"` is executed after the whole conditional expression, not after `print_endline "B"`.

The sequence must form a single subexpression to have two prints in one branch. Parentheses can be used, but it is customary to use `begin … end` in an imperative context.
 ```ocaml
# if true then
    print_endline "A"
  else begin
    print_endline "B";
    print_endline "C"
  end;;
A
- : unit = ()

# if false then
    print_endline "A"
  else begin
    print_endline "B";
    print_endline "C"
  end;;
B
C
- : unit = ()
```

Grouping the statements of sequence is also needed for the first branch of the conditional:
```ocaml
# if true then begin
    print_endline "A";
    print_endline "C"
  end else
    print_endline "B";
  ;;
A
C
- : unit = ()

# if false then
    print_endline "A";
    print_endline "C"
  else
    print_endline "B";;
B
C

> - : unit = ()

Reviewer: I get a syntax error here

Author: Yes, this is on purpose. The syntax error is expected. I messed up with code blocks. The block lines 458--464 should replace the block lines 446--454. Once done, the second (and therefore redundant) block should be deleted.
